Abductive reasoning (also called abduction, abductive inference, or `retroduction`) is a form of logical inference that seeks the simplest and most likely conclusion from a set of observations.

```Danermark et al. 1997
Retroduction is **a method of conceptualizing which requires the researcher to identify the circumstances without which something (the concept) cannot exist**. Used in conjunction, these forms of inference can lead to the formation of a new conceptual framework or theory.
```

Retroduction  to be the most important kind of reasoning, notwithstanding its very unreliable nature, because it is the only kind of reasoning that opens up new ground. Retroduction gives hints that come straight from our dear and adorable Creator. We ought to labor to cultivate this Divine privilege. It is the side of human intellect that is exposed to influence from on high. With this investigation starts. Having once formed a conjecture, the first thing to be done is to draw Deductions from it and compare them with observations.

Retroduction and Induction face opposite ways. The function of retroduction is not unlike those fortuitous variations in reproduction which played so important a role in Darwin’s original theory. In point of fact, according to him every step in the long history of the development of the `moner` into the man was first taken in that arbitrary and lawless mode. 
Whatever truth or error there may be in that, it is quite indubitable, as it appears to me, that every step in the development of primitive notions into modern science was in the first instance mere guess-work, or at least mere conjecture. But the stimulus to guessing, the hint of the conjecture, was derived from experience. The order of the march of suggestion in retroduction is from experience to hypothesis.