Business activity monitoring provides real-time information about the status and results of various operations, processes, and transactions. The main benefits of `BAM` are to enable an enterprise to make better informed business decisions, quickly address problem areas, and re-position organisations to take full advantage of emerging opportunities.

One of the most visible features of `BAM` is the presentation of information on dashboards containing the key performance indicators ([[KPI]]) used to provide assurance and visibility of activity and performance. This information is used by technical and business operations to provide visibility, measurement, and assurance of key business activities. It can also be exploited by event correlation to detect and warn against impending problems.

Although `BAM` systems usually use a computer dashboard display to present data, `BAM` is distinct from the dashboards used by business intelligence (BI) insofar as events are processed in real-time or near real-time and pushed to the dashboard in `BAM` systems, whereas BI dashboards refresh at predetermined intervals by polling or querying databases. Depending on the refresh interval selected, `BAM` and BI dashboards can be similar or vary considerably.

Some products provide trouble notification functions, which allows them to interact automatically with the issue tracking system. For example, whole groups of people can be sent e-mails, voice or text messages, according to the nature of the problem. Automated problem solving, where feasible, can correct and restart failed processes.